docs/recipes/af3.md, before:

---
tags:
 - Engaging
 - Howto Recipes
---

# Running AlphaFold 3 on Engaging

[AlphaFold](https://deepmind.google/technologies/alphafold/) is an AI system
developed by Google that is used for predicting protein structures. Here we
provide a brief description of how to run this model on the Engaging computing
cluster.

!!! note
    These instructions assume that you have access to a partition with a GPU on
    Engaging. If you do not have such access, then you may be able to run this
    on a CPU, but this would require editing the [code distribution provided by
    Google DeepMind](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3/tree/main)
    and rebuilding the Apptainer image.

## Getting Started

For simplicity, in this example, we will create a folder in our home directory
to use as our working directory:

```bash
mkdir ~/af3
export WORKDIR=~/af3
```

**Model weights**

Each user needs to obtain the model weights individually due to licensing
restrictions. These can be obtained by submitting a request to Google DeepMind. Usually,
requests are granted within a few days. To make a request, follow the
instructions on the
[AlphaFold 3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3?tab=readme-ov-file#obtaining-model-parameters).

When you get access, you will receive a link to download the parameters. After
you download them, you can upload them to Engaging using `scp` on your local
machine (you will receive a Duo push notification - see
[Transferring Files](../filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md#scp)):

```bash
scp /path/to/source/af3.bin.zst $USER@orcd-login001.mit.edu:~/af3
```

On Engaging, decompress the file and move to a `models` directory:

```bash
cd $WORKDIR
zstd -d af3.bin.zst
mkdir models
mv af3.bin models
rm af3.bin.zst
```

**Container image**

Google DeepMind provides instructions in their repository on running AlphaFold 3
with Docker. Docker is not compatible with most HPC environments, so we need
to run a pre-built container using Apptainer. We have an image saved globally on Engaging located
at:

```
/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif
```

## Running AlphaFold 3

The last thing you will need to run AlphaFold 3 is the AlphaFold dataset.
Because it is quite large, we have saved it globally on Engaging for all users
at `/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3`.

Once you have everything you need, you will be ready to run AlphaFold 3. We will
now go through a test case adapted from the
[AlphaFold 3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3).
From the working directory, create an output directory and a test input file:

```bash
mkdir af_output
mkdir af_input
touch af_input/fold_input.json
```

Copy the following into `af_input/fold_input.json` (using `vim`, `emacs`, or
`nano`):

```title="fold_input.json"
{
  "name": "2PV7",
  "sequences": [
    {
      "protein": {
        "id": ["A", "B"],
        "sequence": "GMRESYANENQFGFKTINSDIHKIVIVGGYGKLGGLFARYLRASGYPISILDREDWAVAESILANADVVIVSVPINLTLETIERLKPYLTENMLLADLTSVKREPLAKMLEVHTGAVLGLHPMFGADIASMAKQVVVRCDGRFPERYEWLLEQIQIWGAKIYQTNATEHDHNMTYIQALRHFSTFANGLHLSKQPINLANLLALSSPIYRLELAMIGRLFAQDAELYADIIMDKSENLAVIETLKQTYDEALTFFENNDRQGFIDAFHKVRDWFGDYSEQFLKESRQLLQQANDLKQG"
      }
    }
  ],
  "modelSeeds": [1],
  "dialect": "alphafold3",
  "version": 1
}
```

You can either run this in an interactive session or in a batch job. If you have
access to a partition with a GPU, replace the partition name below as necessary:

=== "Interactive"

    Request an interactive session with a GPU:

    ```bash
    salloc -N 1 -n 16 -p mit_normal_gpu --gres=gpu:1
    ```

    Run this script (`sh run_alphafold.sh`):

    ```bash title="run_alphafold.sh"
    #!/bin/bash
 
    module load apptainer

    # Enter the path to the AF3 dataset and container image:
    DATABASES_DIR=/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3
    IMAGE_PATH=/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif

    # Enter the directory of the AF3 material:
    WORKDIR=~/af3

    apptainer exec \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_input:/root/af_input \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_output:/root/af_output \
        --bind $WORKDIR/models:/root/models \
        --bind $DATABASES_DIR:/root/public_databases \
        --nv \
        $IMAGE_PATH \
        python /alphafold3/run_alphafold.py \
        --json_path=/root/af_input/fold_input.json \
        --model_dir=/root/models \
        --output_dir=/root/af_output \
        --db_dir=/root/public_databases
    ```

=== "Batch"

    Create your batch job script:

    ```bash title="run_alphafold.sbatch"
    #!/bin/bash
 
    #SBATCH -N 1
    #SBATCH -n 16
    #SBATCH -p mit_normal_gpu
    #SBATCH --gres=gpu:1

    module load apptainer

    # Enter the path to the AF3 dataset and container image:
    DATABASES_DIR=/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3
    IMAGE_PATH=/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif

    # Enter the directory of the AF3 material:
    WORKDIR=~/af3

    apptainer exec \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_input:/root/af_input \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_output:/root/af_output \
        --bind $WORKDIR/models:/root/models \
        --bind $DATABASES_DIR:/root/public_databases \
        --nv \
        $IMAGE_PATH \
        python /alphafold3/run_alphafold.py \
        --json_path=/root/af_input/fold_input.json \
        --model_dir=/root/models \
        --output_dir=/root/af_output \
        --db_dir=/root/public_databases
    ```

    Submit the batch job:

    ```bash
    sbatch run_alphafold.sbatch
    ```

Output is saved to the `af_output` directory.

Commit message:

Add note about updating image

docs/recipes/af3.md, after:

---
tags:
 - Engaging
 - Howto Recipes
---

# Running AlphaFold 3 on Engaging

[AlphaFold](https://deepmind.google/technologies/alphafold/) is an AI system
developed by Google that is used for predicting protein structures. Here we
provide a brief description of how to run this model on the Engaging computing
cluster.

!!! note
    These instructions assume that you have access to a partition with a GPU on
    Engaging. If you do not have such access, then you may be able to run this
    on a CPU, but this would require editing the [code distribution provided by
    Google DeepMind](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3/tree/main)
    and rebuilding the Apptainer image.

## Getting Started

For simplicity, in this example, we will create a folder in our home directory
to use as our working directory:

```bash
mkdir ~/af3
export WORKDIR=~/af3
```

**Model weights**

Each user needs to obtain the model weights individually due to licensing
restrictions. These can be obtained by submitting a request to Google DeepMind. Usually,
requests are granted within a few days. To make a request, follow the
instructions on the
[AlphaFold 3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3?tab=readme-ov-file#obtaining-model-parameters).

When you get access, you will receive a link to download the parameters. After
you download them, you can upload them to Engaging using `scp` on your local
machine (you will receive a Duo push notification - see
[Transferring Files](../filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md#scp)):

```bash
scp /path/to/source/af3.bin.zst $USER@orcd-login001.mit.edu:~/af3
```

On Engaging, decompress the file and move to a `models` directory:

```bash
cd $WORKDIR
zstd -d af3.bin.zst
mkdir models
mv af3.bin models
rm af3.bin.zst
```

**Container image**

Google DeepMind provides instructions in their repository on running AlphaFold 3
with Docker. Docker is not compatible with most HPC environments, so we need
to run a pre-built container using Apptainer. We have an image saved globally on Engaging located
at:

```
/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif
```

!!! note
    The image that we have built uses a specific version of the
    [AlphaFold 3 GitHub repository](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3).
    As such, it does not change as their code base gets updated for bug fixes. If you would
    like us to update the image to reflect recent changes in the repository, let us know at
    [orcd-help-engaging.mit.edu](orcd-help-engaging.mit.edu).

## Running AlphaFold 3

The last thing you will need to run AlphaFold 3 is the AlphaFold dataset.
Because it is quite large, we have saved it globally on Engaging for all users
at `/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3`.

Once you have everything you need, you will be ready to run AlphaFold 3. We will
now go through a test case adapted from the
[AlphaFold 3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/google-deepmind/alphafold3).
From the working directory, create an output directory and a test input file:

```bash
mkdir af_output
mkdir af_input
touch af_input/fold_input.json
```

Copy the following into `af_input/fold_input.json` (using `vim`, `emacs`, or
`nano`):

```title="fold_input.json"
{
  "name": "2PV7",
  "sequences": [
    {
      "protein": {
        "id": ["A", "B"],
        "sequence": "GMRESYANENQFGFKTINSDIHKIVIVGGYGKLGGLFARYLRASGYPISILDREDWAVAESILANADVVIVSVPINLTLETIERLKPYLTENMLLADLTSVKREPLAKMLEVHTGAVLGLHPMFGADIASMAKQVVVRCDGRFPERYEWLLEQIQIWGAKIYQTNATEHDHNMTYIQALRHFSTFANGLHLSKQPINLANLLALSSPIYRLELAMIGRLFAQDAELYADIIMDKSENLAVIETLKQTYDEALTFFENNDRQGFIDAFHKVRDWFGDYSEQFLKESRQLLQQANDLKQG"
      }
    }
  ],
  "modelSeeds": [1],
  "dialect": "alphafold3",
  "version": 1
}
```

You can either run this in an interactive session or in a batch job. If you have
access to a partition with a GPU, replace the partition name below as necessary:

=== "Interactive"

    Request an interactive session with a GPU:

    ```bash
    salloc -N 1 -n 16 -p mit_normal_gpu --gres=gpu:1
    ```

    Run this script (`sh run_alphafold.sh`):

    ```bash title="run_alphafold.sh"
    #!/bin/bash
 
    module load apptainer

    # Enter the path to the AF3 dataset and container image:
    DATABASES_DIR=/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3
    IMAGE_PATH=/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif

    # Enter the directory of the AF3 material:
    WORKDIR=~/af3

    apptainer exec \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_input:/root/af_input \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_output:/root/af_output \
        --bind $WORKDIR/models:/root/models \
        --bind $DATABASES_DIR:/root/public_databases \
        --nv \
        $IMAGE_PATH \
        python /alphafold3/run_alphafold.py \
        --json_path=/root/af_input/fold_input.json \
        --model_dir=/root/models \
        --output_dir=/root/af_output \
        --db_dir=/root/public_databases
    ```

=== "Batch"

    Create your batch job script:

    ```bash title="run_alphafold.sbatch"
    #!/bin/bash
 
    #SBATCH -N 1
    #SBATCH -n 16
    #SBATCH -p mit_normal_gpu
    #SBATCH --gres=gpu:1

    module load apptainer

    # Enter the path to the AF3 dataset and container image:
    DATABASES_DIR=/orcd/datasets/001/alphafold3
    IMAGE_PATH=/orcd/software/community/001/container_images/alphafold3/20250321/alphafold3.sif

    # Enter the directory of the AF3 material:
    WORKDIR=~/af3

    apptainer exec \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_input:/root/af_input \
        --bind $WORKDIR/af_output:/root/af_output \
        --bind $WORKDIR/models:/root/models \
        --bind $DATABASES_DIR:/root/public_databases \
        --nv \
        $IMAGE_PATH \
        python /alphafold3/run_alphafold.py \
        --json_path=/root/af_input/fold_input.json \
        --model_dir=/root/models \
        --output_dir=/root/af_output \
        --db_dir=/root/public_databases
    ```

    Submit the batch job:

    ```bash
    sbatch run_alphafold.sbatch
    ```

Output is saved to the `af_output` directory.
