docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
tags:
  - Getting Started
  - Linux
---

# Getting Started Tutorial

This page contains the most common steps for setting up and getting
started with your ORCD system account. We provide this page as a
convenient reference to get started. Each system has its own in-depth documentation which can be found on the [ORCD Systems](orcd-systems.md) page.

Sections that are system-specific will be shown under a list of tabs. Click on the tab for the system you are using and the rest of the page will show the information for that system.

## Getting an Account

If you don't already have an account, click on the tab for the system you are interested in and follow the instructions.

=== "Engaging"

    Login into the respective OnDemand Portal [https://engaging-ood.mit.edu](https://engaging-ood.mit.edu) using your MIT kerberos credentials. The system will then be prompted to create your account automatically. Wait a couple of minutes for the system to create all the pieces for your account before submitting your first job.

=== "SuperCloud"

    Follow the instructions on the [Account Request Page](https://supercloud.mit.edu/requesting-account).

=== "OpenMind"

    OpenMind will be retired later this year. BCS users are encouraged to transition their workflows to Engaging, where they can use the `ou_bcs_low`, `ou_bcs_normal`, and `ou_bcs_high` partitions for access to GPUs. All other MIT users can access these resources through the `mit_preemptable` partition on Engaging.
    
    If you are in BCS and you would still like an account on OpenMind, see the [Getting an Account](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Cookbook:-Getting-started#account) page on OpenMind's documentation..

## Logging In

The first thing you should do when you get a new account is verify that
you can log in. The different ORCD systems provide multiple ways to log in, including both ssh and web portals. Links to instructions for the different systems are below.

=== "SuperCloud"   
    
    See the [Logging into SuperCloud](https://supercloud.mit.edu/getting-started) page for full documentation.

=== "OpenMind"   
    
    See the [Logging into OpenMind](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/How-to-log-in-Openmind%3F) page for full documentation.

### Terminal with SSH

=== "Engaging"
    Engaging has four login nodes running Rocky 8:
    
    - `orcd-login001`
    - `orcd-login002`
    - `orcd-login003`
    - `orcd-login004`
    
    If you are using older Centos 7 nodes you can use one of the Centos 7 login nodes instead:
    
    - `orcd-vlogin001`
    - `orcd-vlogin002`
    - `orcd-vlogin003`
    - `orcd-vlogin004`
    
    Replace `USERNAME` below with your Kerberos username and use the login node you would like to log in with, the example below is using `orcd-login001`.

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu
    ```

    If you are prompted for a password enter your Kerberos password.  You can add an ssh key if you do not want to enter your Kerberos password at login, see the [SSH Key](accessing-orcd/ssh-setup.md) page for more information. All login nodes require Two-Factor Authentication.

=== "SuperCloud"

    In order to log into SuperCloud with ssh you will need to add ssh keys to your account on the Web Portal. Follow the instructions on the [SuperCloud Getting Started](https://supercloud.mit.edu/getting-started) page to add your keys.

    Then you can log in with ssh using the following command, where `USERNAME` is your username on the MIT SuperCloud system:

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@txe1-login.mit.edu
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    Log into OpenMind with the following command in a terminal window. Replace `USERNAME` below with your Kerberos username.

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@openmind.mit.edu
    ```

    If you are prompted for a password enter your Kerberos password. You can add an [ssh key](accessing-orcd/ssh-setup.md) if you do not want to enter your Kerberos password at login.

### Web Portal

=== "Engaging"

    You can log into OnDemand Web Portal with the link: [https://engaging-ood.mit.edu](https://engaging-ood.mit.edu). For full detailed instructions please see the [OnDemand Documentation](accessing-orcd/ondemand-login.md).

=== "SuperCloud"   

    You can log into the SuperCloud Web Portal with the link: [https://txe1-portal.mit.edu](https://txe1-portal.mit.edu). For full detailed instructions please see the [SuperCloud Documentation](https://mit-supercloud.github.io/supercloud-docs/getting-started/).

=== "OpenMind"   
    
    OpenMind does not have a web portal. However, check out OpenMind's documentation on the [FastX Remote Desktop](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/How-to-use-Xfast-remote-desktop%3F). You may find it provides what you are looking for.

## Shared HPC Clusters

Each ORCD system is a shared HPC cluster. You are sharing this
resources with a number of other researchers, staff, and students, so it
is important that you read this page and use the system as intended.

Being a cluster, there are several machines connected together with a
network. We refer to these as **nodes**. Most nodes in the cluster are
referred to as **compute nodes**, this is where the computation is done
on the system (where you will run your code). When you ssh into the
system you are on a special purpose node called the **login node**. The
login node, as its name suggests, is where you log in and is for editing
code and files, installing packages and software, downloading data, and
starting jobs to run your code on one of the compute nodes.

Each job is started using a piece of software called the **scheduler**,
which you can think of as a resource manager. You let it know what
resources you need and what you want to run, and the scheduler will find
those resources and start your job on them. When your job completes
those resources are relinquished. The scheduler is what ensures that no
two jobs are using the same resources, so it is very important not to
run anything unless it is submitted properly through the scheduler.

## Software and Packages

The first thing you may want to do is make sure the system has the
software and packages you need. We have installed a lot of software and
packages on the system already, even though it may not be immediately
obvious that it is there. Review the page for the system you are using paying particular attention to the section on modules and installing packages for the language that you use:

=== "Engaging"

    The Engaging Software documentation is available under the "Software" section on this site (see the sidebar on the left). We recommend reading through both the [Overview](software/overview.md) and [Modules](software/modules.md) pages, and then select the additional pages most relevant to you.

=== "SuperCloud"

    [SuperCloud Software Documentation Page](https://supercloud.mit.edu/software-and-package-management)

=== "OpenMind"

    [OpenMind Software Documentation Page](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Getting-started#setup)

If you are ever unsure if we have a particular
software, and you cannot find it, please send us an email and ask before
you spend a lot of time trying to install it. If we have it, we can
point you to it, provide advice on how to use it, and if we don't have
it we can often give pointers on how to install it. Further, if a lot of
people request the same software, we may consider adding it to the
system image.

## Linux Command Line

Every ORCD system runs Linux, so much of what you do on the cluster
involves the Linux command line. That doesn't mean you have to be a
Linux expert to use the system! However the more you can get comfortable
with the Linux command line and a handful of basic commands, the easier
using the system will be. If you are already familiar with Linux, feel
free to skip this section, or skim as a refresher.

Most Linux commands deal with **directories** and **files**. A
**directory**, synonymous to a folder, contains files and other
directories. The list of directories that lead to a particular directory
or file is called its **path**. In Linux, directories on a path are
separated by forward slashes `/`. It is also important to note that
everything in Linux is case sensitive, so a file `myScript.sh` is not
the same as the file `myscript.sh`. When you first log in, you are in your
**home directory**. Your home directory is where you can put all the
code and data you need to run your job. Your home directory is not
accessible to other users, so if you need a space to share files with other
users, let us know and we can make a shared **group directory** for you.

=== "Engaging"

    The path to your home directory on Engaging is `/home/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

=== "SuperCloud"

    The path to your home directory on SuperCloud is `/home/gridsan/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

=== "OpenMind"

    The path to your home directory on OpenMind is `/home/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

Anytime after you start typing a Linux command you can press the "Tab"
button your your keyboard. This called tab-complete, and will try to
autocomplete what you are typing. This is particularly helpful when
typing out long directory paths and file names. Pressing "Tab" once
will complete if there is a single completion, pressing it twice will
list all potential completions. It is a bit difficult to explain in
text, but you can try it out yourself and watch the short demonstration
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_completion).

Finally, click on the box below for a list of Linux Commands. If you are new to Linux try them out for yourself at the command line.

??? "Common Linux Commands"

    -   Creating, navigating and viewing directories:
        -   `pwd`: tells you the full path of the directory you are
            currently in
        -   `mkdir dirname`: creates a directory with the name "dirname"
        -   `cd dirname`: change directory to directory "dirname"
            -   `cd ../`: takes you up one level
        -   `ls`: lists the files in the directory
            -   `ls -a`: lists all files including hidden files
            -   `ls -l`: lists files in "long format" including ownership
                and date of last update
            -   `ls -t`: lists files by date stamp, most recently updated
                file first
            -   `ls -tr`: lists files by dates stamp in reverse order, most
                recently updated file is listed last (this is useful if you
                have a lot of files, you want to know which file you changed
                last and the list of files results in a scrolling window)
            -   `ls dirname`: lists the files in the directory "dirname"
    -   Viewing files
        -   `more filename`: shows the first part of a file, hitting the
            space bar allows you to scroll through the rest of the file, q
            will cause you to exit out of the file.
        -   `less filename`: allows you to scroll through the file, forward
            and backward, using the arrow keys.
        -   `tail filename`: shows the last 10 lines of a file (useful when
            you are monitoring a log file or output file to see that the
            values are correct)
            -   `tail <number> filename`: show you the last &lt;number\>
                lines of a file.
            -   `tail -f filename`: shows you new lines as they are written
                to the end of the file. Press CMD+C or Control+C to exit.
                This is helpful to monitor the log file of a batch job.
    -   Copying, moving, renaming, and deleting files
        -   `mv filename dirname`: moves filename to directory dirname.
            -   `mv filename1 filename2`: moves filename1 to filename2, in
                essence renames the file. The date and time are not changed
                by the mv command.
        -   `cp filename dirname`: copies to directory dirname.
            -   `cp filename1 filename2`: copies filename1 to filename2. The
                date stamp on filename2 will be the date/time that the file
                was moved
            -   `cp -r dirname1 dirname2`: copies directory dirname1 and its
                contents to dirname2.
        -   `rm filename`: removes (deletes) the file

## Transferring Files

One of the first tasks is to get your code, data, and any other files
you need into your home directory on the system. If your code is in
github you can use git commands on the system to clone your repository
to your home directory. You can also transfer your files to your home
directory from your computer by using the commands `scp` or `rsync`. Read
the page on
[Transferring Files](./filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md) for the
system you are using to learn how to use these commands and transfer what you
need to your home directory.

You can use `scp` or `rsync` from the command line on your local computer for any ORCD system. Both commands work similarly to the `cp` command, following the pattern `<command> <source> <destination>`, the only difference being that you will need to include the hostname of the system you are transferring to or from. For this reason you *must* run this command from the terminal on your computer *before you've logged in*.

To transfer a file from your computer to the ORCD system:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp <file-name> USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above. Note that you will need to
    authenticate with Duo)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp <local-file-name> USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp <local-file-name> USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>
    ```

To transfer a file from an ORCD system to your computer:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

Similar to `cp`, use the `-r` flag to copy over an entire directory and its contents. 

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>
    ```

The `rsync` command can be used similarly and has some additional flags you can use. It also can be used to transfer only new or modified files to the destination, which makes it easy to keep a directory in "sync".

For more information on transferring files and additional methods please see the [Transferring Files](filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md) page.


Running your First Job
----------------------

At this point you may want to do a test-run of your code. You always
want to start small in your test runs, so you should choose a small
example that tests the functionality of what you would ultimately like
to run on the system. If your test code is serial and runs okay on a
moderate personal laptop or desktop you can request an interactive
session to run your code in by executing the command:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job for 1 hour
    salloc -t 01:00:00 -p mit_normal
    ```

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job
    LLsub -i
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job for 1 hour
    srun -n 1 -t 01:00:00  --pty bash  
    ```

After you run this command you will be on a compute node and you can do
a test-run of your code. This command will allocate one core to your
job. If your test code is multithreaded or parallel, uses a lot of
memory, or requires a GPU you should request additional resources as needed. Not requesting the resources you will be using can negatively impact others on the system.

Please see your system's documentation pages for more information on requesting more resources for running interactive jobs, and how to run batch jobs.

=== "Engaging"

    The Engaging documentation on running jobs is available under the "Running Jobs" section on this site (see the sidebar on the left). We recommend reading through both the [Overview](running-jobs/overview.md) and [Requesting Resources](running-jobs/requesting-resources.md) pages, and then select the additional pages most relevant to you.

=== "SuperCloud"

    [SuperCloud's Documentation for Running Jobs](https://supercloud.mit.edu/submitting-jobs)

=== "OpenMind"

    [OpenMind's Documentation for Running Jobs](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Getting-started#run)

Commit message:

Update login instructions in Getting Started Tutorial
Updated SSH login instructions for Engaging, including command format and reference to additional documentation.

docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Getting Started
  - Linux
---

# Getting Started Tutorial

This page contains the most common steps for setting up and getting
started with your ORCD system account. We provide this page as a
convenient reference to get started. Each system has its own in-depth documentation which can be found on the [ORCD Systems](orcd-systems.md) page.

Sections that are system-specific will be shown under a list of tabs. Click on the tab for the system you are using and the rest of the page will show the information for that system.

## Getting an Account

If you don't already have an account, click on the tab for the system you are interested in and follow the instructions.

=== "Engaging"

    Login into the respective OnDemand Portal [https://engaging-ood.mit.edu](https://engaging-ood.mit.edu) using your MIT kerberos credentials. The system will then be prompted to create your account automatically. Wait a couple of minutes for the system to create all the pieces for your account before submitting your first job.

=== "SuperCloud"

    Follow the instructions on the [Account Request Page](https://supercloud.mit.edu/requesting-account).

=== "OpenMind"

    OpenMind will be retired later this year. BCS users are encouraged to transition their workflows to Engaging, where they can use the `ou_bcs_low`, `ou_bcs_normal`, and `ou_bcs_high` partitions for access to GPUs. All other MIT users can access these resources through the `mit_preemptable` partition on Engaging.
    
    If you are in BCS and you would still like an account on OpenMind, see the [Getting an Account](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Cookbook:-Getting-started#account) page on OpenMind's documentation..

## Logging In

The first thing you should do when you get a new account is verify that
you can log in. The different ORCD systems provide multiple ways to log in, including both ssh and web portals. Links to instructions for the different systems are below.

=== "SuperCloud"   
    
    See the [Logging into SuperCloud](https://supercloud.mit.edu/getting-started) page for full documentation.

=== "OpenMind"   
    
    See the [Logging into OpenMind](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/How-to-log-in-Openmind%3F) page for full documentation.

### Terminal with SSH

=== "Engaging"
    Log into Engaging with the following command in a terminal window. Replace `USERNAME` below with your MIT Kerberos username:

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@orcd-login.mit.edu
    ```
    You will be prompted for your Kerberos password and then for Duo two-factor authentication.
    
    If you are using older Centos 7 nodes you can use one of the Centos 7 login nodes instead:
    
    - `orcd-vlogin001`
    - `orcd-vlogin002`
    - `orcd-vlogin003`
    - `orcd-vlogin004`

    See [Logging in with SSH](accessing-orcd/ssh-login.md/#logging-in-via-ssh) for more information.

=== "SuperCloud"

    In order to log into SuperCloud with ssh you will need to add ssh keys to your account on the Web Portal. Follow the instructions on the [SuperCloud Getting Started](https://supercloud.mit.edu/getting-started) page to add your keys.

    Then you can log in with ssh using the following command, where `USERNAME` is your username on the MIT SuperCloud system:

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@txe1-login.mit.edu
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    Log into OpenMind with the following command in a terminal window. Replace `USERNAME` below with your Kerberos username.

    ```bash
    ssh USERNAME@openmind.mit.edu
    ```

    If you are prompted for a password enter your Kerberos password. You can add an [ssh key](accessing-orcd/ssh-setup.md) if you do not want to enter your Kerberos password at login.

### Web Portal

=== "Engaging"

    You can log into OnDemand Web Portal with the link: [https://engaging-ood.mit.edu](https://engaging-ood.mit.edu). For full detailed instructions please see the [OnDemand Documentation](accessing-orcd/ondemand-login.md).

=== "SuperCloud"   

    You can log into the SuperCloud Web Portal with the link: [https://txe1-portal.mit.edu](https://txe1-portal.mit.edu). For full detailed instructions please see the [SuperCloud Documentation](https://mit-supercloud.github.io/supercloud-docs/getting-started/).

=== "OpenMind"   
    
    OpenMind does not have a web portal. However, check out OpenMind's documentation on the [FastX Remote Desktop](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/How-to-use-Xfast-remote-desktop%3F). You may find it provides what you are looking for.

## Shared HPC Clusters

Each ORCD system is a shared HPC cluster. You are sharing this
resources with a number of other researchers, staff, and students, so it
is important that you read this page and use the system as intended.

Being a cluster, there are several machines connected together with a
network. We refer to these as **nodes**. Most nodes in the cluster are
referred to as **compute nodes**, this is where the computation is done
on the system (where you will run your code). When you ssh into the
system you are on a special purpose node called the **login node**. The
login node, as its name suggests, is where you log in and is for editing
code and files, installing packages and software, downloading data, and
starting jobs to run your code on one of the compute nodes.

Each job is started using a piece of software called the **scheduler**,
which you can think of as a resource manager. You let it know what
resources you need and what you want to run, and the scheduler will find
those resources and start your job on them. When your job completes
those resources are relinquished. The scheduler is what ensures that no
two jobs are using the same resources, so it is very important not to
run anything unless it is submitted properly through the scheduler.

## Software and Packages

The first thing you may want to do is make sure the system has the
software and packages you need. We have installed a lot of software and
packages on the system already, even though it may not be immediately
obvious that it is there. Review the page for the system you are using paying particular attention to the section on modules and installing packages for the language that you use:

=== "Engaging"

    The Engaging Software documentation is available under the "Software" section on this site (see the sidebar on the left). We recommend reading through both the [Overview](software/overview.md) and [Modules](software/modules.md) pages, and then select the additional pages most relevant to you.

=== "SuperCloud"

    [SuperCloud Software Documentation Page](https://supercloud.mit.edu/software-and-package-management)

=== "OpenMind"

    [OpenMind Software Documentation Page](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Getting-started#setup)

If you are ever unsure if we have a particular
software, and you cannot find it, please send us an email and ask before
you spend a lot of time trying to install it. If we have it, we can
point you to it, provide advice on how to use it, and if we don't have
it we can often give pointers on how to install it. Further, if a lot of
people request the same software, we may consider adding it to the
system image.

## Linux Command Line

Every ORCD system runs Linux, so much of what you do on the cluster
involves the Linux command line. That doesn't mean you have to be a
Linux expert to use the system! However the more you can get comfortable
with the Linux command line and a handful of basic commands, the easier
using the system will be. If you are already familiar with Linux, feel
free to skip this section, or skim as a refresher.

Most Linux commands deal with **directories** and **files**. A
**directory**, synonymous to a folder, contains files and other
directories. The list of directories that lead to a particular directory
or file is called its **path**. In Linux, directories on a path are
separated by forward slashes `/`. It is also important to note that
everything in Linux is case sensitive, so a file `myScript.sh` is not
the same as the file `myscript.sh`. When you first log in, you are in your
**home directory**. Your home directory is where you can put all the
code and data you need to run your job. Your home directory is not
accessible to other users, so if you need a space to share files with other
users, let us know and we can make a shared **group directory** for you.

=== "Engaging"

    The path to your home directory on Engaging is `/home/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

=== "SuperCloud"

    The path to your home directory on SuperCloud is `/home/gridsan/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

=== "OpenMind"

    The path to your home directory on OpenMind is `/home/<USERNAME>`, where `<USERNAME>` is your username. The character `~` is also shorthand for your home directory in any Linux commands.

Anytime after you start typing a Linux command you can press the "Tab"
button your your keyboard. This called tab-complete, and will try to
autocomplete what you are typing. This is particularly helpful when
typing out long directory paths and file names. Pressing "Tab" once
will complete if there is a single completion, pressing it twice will
list all potential completions. It is a bit difficult to explain in
text, but you can try it out yourself and watch the short demonstration
[here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_completion).

Finally, click on the box below for a list of Linux Commands. If you are new to Linux try them out for yourself at the command line.

??? "Common Linux Commands"

    -   Creating, navigating and viewing directories:
        -   `pwd`: tells you the full path of the directory you are
            currently in
        -   `mkdir dirname`: creates a directory with the name "dirname"
        -   `cd dirname`: change directory to directory "dirname"
            -   `cd ../`: takes you up one level
        -   `ls`: lists the files in the directory
            -   `ls -a`: lists all files including hidden files
            -   `ls -l`: lists files in "long format" including ownership
                and date of last update
            -   `ls -t`: lists files by date stamp, most recently updated
                file first
            -   `ls -tr`: lists files by dates stamp in reverse order, most
                recently updated file is listed last (this is useful if you
                have a lot of files, you want to know which file you changed
                last and the list of files results in a scrolling window)
            -   `ls dirname`: lists the files in the directory "dirname"
    -   Viewing files
        -   `more filename`: shows the first part of a file, hitting the
            space bar allows you to scroll through the rest of the file, q
            will cause you to exit out of the file.
        -   `less filename`: allows you to scroll through the file, forward
            and backward, using the arrow keys.
        -   `tail filename`: shows the last 10 lines of a file (useful when
            you are monitoring a log file or output file to see that the
            values are correct)
            -   `tail <number> filename`: show you the last &lt;number\>
                lines of a file.
            -   `tail -f filename`: shows you new lines as they are written
                to the end of the file. Press CMD+C or Control+C to exit.
                This is helpful to monitor the log file of a batch job.
    -   Copying, moving, renaming, and deleting files
        -   `mv filename dirname`: moves filename to directory dirname.
            -   `mv filename1 filename2`: moves filename1 to filename2, in
                essence renames the file. The date and time are not changed
                by the mv command.
        -   `cp filename dirname`: copies to directory dirname.
            -   `cp filename1 filename2`: copies filename1 to filename2. The
                date stamp on filename2 will be the date/time that the file
                was moved
            -   `cp -r dirname1 dirname2`: copies directory dirname1 and its
                contents to dirname2.
        -   `rm filename`: removes (deletes) the file

## Transferring Files

One of the first tasks is to get your code, data, and any other files
you need into your home directory on the system. If your code is in
github you can use git commands on the system to clone your repository
to your home directory. You can also transfer your files to your home
directory from your computer by using the commands `scp` or `rsync`. Read
the page on
[Transferring Files](./filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md) for the
system you are using to learn how to use these commands and transfer what you
need to your home directory.

You can use `scp` or `rsync` from the command line on your local computer for any ORCD system. Both commands work similarly to the `cp` command, following the pattern `<command> <source> <destination>`, the only difference being that you will need to include the hostname of the system you are transferring to or from. For this reason you *must* run this command from the terminal on your computer *before you've logged in*.

To transfer a file from your computer to the ORCD system:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp <file-name> USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above. Note that you will need to
    authenticate with Duo)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp <local-file-name> USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp <local-file-name> USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>
    ```

To transfer a file from an ORCD system to your computer:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>/<file-name> <path-to-local-dest>
    ```

Similar to `cp`, use the `-r` flag to copy over an entire directory and its contents. 

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@orcd-login001.mit.edu:<path-to-engaging-dir>
    ```

    (You can use any of the login nodes listed above)

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@txe1-login:<path-to-supercloud-dir>
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    scp -r <local-dir-name> USERNAME@openmind-dtn.mit.edu:<path-to-openmind-dir>
    ```

The `rsync` command can be used similarly and has some additional flags you can use. It also can be used to transfer only new or modified files to the destination, which makes it easy to keep a directory in "sync".

For more information on transferring files and additional methods please see the [Transferring Files](filesystems-file-transfer/transferring-files.md) page.


Running your First Job
----------------------

At this point you may want to do a test-run of your code. You always
want to start small in your test runs, so you should choose a small
example that tests the functionality of what you would ultimately like
to run on the system. If your test code is serial and runs okay on a
moderate personal laptop or desktop you can request an interactive
session to run your code in by executing the command:

=== "Engaging"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job for 1 hour
    salloc -t 01:00:00 -p mit_normal
    ```

=== "SuperCloud"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job
    LLsub -i
    ```

=== "OpenMind"

    ``` bash
    # Requesting a single core for an interactive job for 1 hour
    srun -n 1 -t 01:00:00  --pty bash  
    ```

After you run this command you will be on a compute node and you can do
a test-run of your code. This command will allocate one core to your
job. If your test code is multithreaded or parallel, uses a lot of
memory, or requires a GPU you should request additional resources as needed. Not requesting the resources you will be using can negatively impact others on the system.

Please see your system's documentation pages for more information on requesting more resources for running interactive jobs, and how to run batch jobs.

=== "Engaging"

    The Engaging documentation on running jobs is available under the "Running Jobs" section on this site (see the sidebar on the left). We recommend reading through both the [Overview](running-jobs/overview.md) and [Requesting Resources](running-jobs/requesting-resources.md) pages, and then select the additional pages most relevant to you.

=== "SuperCloud"

    [SuperCloud's Documentation for Running Jobs](https://supercloud.mit.edu/submitting-jobs)

=== "OpenMind"

    [OpenMind's Documentation for Running Jobs](https://github.mit.edu/MGHPCC/OpenMind/wiki/Getting-started#run)
